issue #108 #618 bulkdata export for group members and instruction for exports (#594)
IBM/FHIR: docs/src/pages/guides/FHIRServerUsersGuide.md

  * [4.7 FHIR command-line interface (fhir-cli)](#47-fhir-command-line-interface-fhir-cli)
  * [4.8 Using local references within request bundles](#48-using-local-references-within-request-bundles)
  * [4.9 Multi-tenancy](#49-multi-tenancy)

>   * [4.10 BulkData](#410-bulkdata)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * [4.10 Bulk Data Operations](#410-bulkdata)
```

>   * [4.11 CADF audit logging service](#410-CADF-audit-logging-service)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * [4.11 CADF audit logging service](#411-CADF-audit-logging-service)
```

It is also possible to configure the persistence properties for a specific tenant, for example to set an alternate
database hostname or database schema name.

## 4.10 BulkData
### 4.10.1 BulkData Export

> BulkData Export is implemented according to [FHIR r4 BulkData spec](http://hl7.org/fhir/uv/bulkdata/STU1/export/index.html).   

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
BulkData Export is implemented according to [FHIR BulkDataAccess IG: STU1](http://hl7.org/fhir/uv/bulkdata/STU1/export/index.html).   
```
sorry - I realized I gave a bad edit before

Author: np, let me fix it.

Author: done

The *fhir-bulkimportexport-webapp* module is a wrapper for the whole BulkData web application, which is the build artifact - fhir-bulkimportexport.war.   This web archive is copied to the apps directory of the liberty fhir-server instance. Following is a sample liberty server configuration (server.xml) for fhir-bulkimportexport.war:

```xml
    <webApplication id="fhir-bulkimportexport-webapp" location="fhir-bulkimportexport.war" name="fhir-bulkimportexport-webapp">
        <classloader commonLibraryRef="fhirSharedLib" privateLibraryRef="configResources,fhirUserLib"/>
        <application-bnd>
            <security-role id="users" name="FHIRUsers">
                <group name="FHIRUsers"/>
            </security-role>
        </application-bnd>
    </webApplication>
```

BulkData web application writes the exported FHIR resources to IBM COS or Amazon S3 bucket, as configured in the per-tenant bulkdata.json configuration file.  The bulkdata.json file is stored in the tenant configuration directory of each fhir-server instance. The following is a bulkdata.json which is configured to export the FHIR resources into fhir-bulkdata-sample bucket of IBM COS: 

```json
{

>   "applicationName": "fhir-bulkimportexport-webapp",

Reviewer 2: these elements should be described in a table. 

Parameter Name   | Description
|--------------| ------------|
`applicationName`| fixed value |
`moduleName`| fixed value |
`jobParameters.cos.bucket.name`| fixed value |
`jobParameters.cos.location`| fixed value |
`jobParameters.cos.endpointurl`| fixed value |
`jobParameters.credential.ibm`| fixed value |
`jobParameters.cos.api.key`| fixed value |
`jobParameters.cos.srvinst.id`| fixed value |
`implementation_type`| fixed value |
`batch-uri`| fixed value |
`batch-user`| fixed value |
`batch-user-password`| fixed value |
`batch-truststore`| fixed value |
`batch-truststore-password`| fixed value |
`serverHostname`| fixed value |
`contextRoot`| fixed value |

Reviewer 2: you can copy the above table below the JSON, I hope it helps

Author: the description for the others parameters are very descriptive, so I didn't add comments for them. but yes, make sense to add them all. I have just added the table to the document

  "moduleName": "fhir-bulkimportexport.war",
  "jobParameters": {
    "cos.bucket.name": "fhir-bulkdata-sample",
    "cos.location": "us",
    "cos.endpointurl": "https://s3.us-south.cloud-object-storage.appdomain.cloud",
    "cos.credential.ibm": "Y",
    "cos.api.key": "xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx",
    "cos.srvinst.id": "xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx",
  },
  "implementation_type": "cos",
  "batch-uri": "https://localhost:9443/ibm/api/batch/jobinstances",
  "batch-user": "fhiradmin",
  "batch-user-password": "xxxxxxxxxxxx",
  "batch-truststore" : "resources/security/fhirTruststore.jks",
  "batch-truststore-password" : "xxxxxxxxxxxx",
  "serverHostname" : "localhost:9443",	       <!--Host name part of the server generated polling location url -->
  "contextRoot" : "/fhir-server/api/v4"		   <!--Context root part of the server generated polling location url -->

> }

Reviewer 2: ```
<!--Host name part of the server generated polling location url -->
  "contextRoot" : "/fhir-server/api/v4"		   <!--Context root part of the server generated polling location url -->
}
```
I think these comments should be outside of the JSON

Author: yeah, make sense

Author: done

It is also possible to configure the persistence properties for a specific tenant, for example to set an alternate
database hostname or database schema name.

## 4.10 BulkData
### 4.10.1 BulkData Export

> BulkData export is implemented according to [Fhir r4 BulkData spec](http://hl7.org/fhir/uv/bulkdata/STU1/export/index.html).   

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
BulkData Export is implemented according to [FHIR r4 BulkData spec](http://hl7.org/fhir/uv/bulkdata/STU1/export/index.html).   
```

> There are 2 projects involved inside the implementation:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are 2 modules involved inside the implementation:
```

- fhir-operation-bulkdata
- fhir-bulkimportexport-webapp   

> (There is a ExportOperationTest.java in fhir-server-test project with server integration test cases for system, patient and group export)  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To integration test BulkData, there are tests in ExportOperationTest.java in fhir-server-test project with server integration test cases for system, patient and group export.

```

> The fhir-operation-bulkdata project implements the REST APIs for Bulkdata export as FHIR operations, there are ExportOperation, PatientExportOperation and GroupExportOperation defined for system export, patient export and group export accordingly. And these operations call JavaBatch jobs defined in the fhir-bulkimportexport-webapp project to do the real export work.   

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The *fhir-operation-bulkdata* project implements the REST APIs for Bulkdata export as FHIR operations.  There are three operations ExportOperation - system export, PatientExportOperation - Patient export and GroupExportOperation - group export.  Each operation calls the JavaBatch framework defined in the *fhir-bulkimportexport-webapp* project to execute the export unit-of-work.   
```

> There are 3 chunk style JavaBatch jobs defined as following in fhir-bulkimportexport-webapp project for the above 3 export operations:  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

There are 3 chunk style JavaBatch jobs defined as following in fhir-bulkimportexport-webapp project for the above 3 export operations:  
```

- FhirBulkExportChunkJob
- FhirBulkExportPatientChunkJob
- FhirBulkExportGroupChunkJob

> The fhir-bulkimportexport-webapp project is also a wrapper for the whole BulkData web application, which generates fhir-bulkimportexport.war, this war should be copied to the apps directory of the liberty fhir-server instance. Following is a sample deployment description for fhir-bulkimportexport.war in server.xml of liberty server:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The *fhir-bulkimportexport-webapp* project is a wrapper for the whole BulkData web application, which is the build artifact - fhir-bulkimportexport.war.   This web archive is copied to the apps directory of the liberty fhir-server instance. Following is a sample liberty server configuration (server.xml) for fhir-bulkimportexport.war:
```

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
``` xml
```

    <webApplication id="fhir-bulkimportexport-webapp" location="fhir-bulkimportexport.war" name="fhir-bulkimportexport-webapp">
        <classloader commonLibraryRef="fhirSharedLib" privateLibraryRef="configResources,fhirUserLib"/>
        <application-bnd>
            <security-role id="users" name="FHIRUsers">
                <group name="FHIRUsers"/>
            </security-role>
        </application-bnd>
    </webApplication>
```

> The exported FHIR resources can be configured to be written into IBM COS or Amazon S3 bucket in the per-tenant bulkdata.json configuration file which is put under the tenant configuration directory of the fhir-server instance. Following is a sample bulkdata.json which is configured to export the FHIR resources into fhir-bulkdata-sample bucket of IBM COS: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
BulkData web application writes the exported FHIR resources to IBM COS or Amazon S3 bucket, as configured in the per-tenant bulkdata.json configuration file.  The bulkdata.json file is stored in the tenant configuration directory of each fhir-server instance. The following is a bulkdata.json which is configured to export the FHIR resources into fhir-bulkdata-sample bucket of IBM COS: 
```

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
``` json
```

{
  "applicationName": "fhir-bulkimportexport-webapp",
  "moduleName": "fhir-bulkimportexport.war",
  "jobParameters": {
    "cos.bucket.name": "fhir-bulkdata-sample",
    "cos.location": "us",
    "cos.endpointurl": "https://s3.us-south.cloud-object-storage.appdomain.cloud",
    "cos.credential.ibm": "Y",
    "cos.api.key": "xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx",
    "cos.srvinst.id": "xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx",
  },
  "implementation_type": "cos",
  "batch-uri": "https://localhost:9443/ibm/api/batch/jobinstances",
  "batch-user": "fhiradmin",
  "batch-user-password": "xxxxxxxxxxxx",
  "batch-truststore" : "resources/security/fhirTruststore.jks",
  "batch-truststore-password" : "xxxxxxxxxxxx",
  "serverHostname" : "localhost:9443",

>     "contextRoot" : "/fhir-server/api/v4"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   "contextRoot" : "/fhir-server/api/v4"
```

> }

Reviewer 2: maybe the values that can be set above should be described for the client? 
Also cos.bucket.prefix ? it seems pretty useful.

Author: good point, will add. cos.bucket.prefix is generated automatically by codes, so I didn't add it.

```
To use Amazon S3 bucket for exporting, please set cos.credential.ibm to "N", set cos.api.key to S3 access key, and set cos.srvinst.id to S3 secret key. This following is a sample path to the exported ndjson file, the full path can be gotten from the response to the polling location request after the export request (please refer to Fhir BulkDate spec for details).  

```
	.../fhir-bulkimexport-connectathon/6xjd4M8afi6Xo95eYv7zPxBqSCoOEFywZLoqH1QBtbw=/Patient_1.ndjson
```
Following is the beautified response of sample polling location request after the export is finished:

```
{
"transactionTime": "2020/01/20 16:53:41.160 -0500",
"request": "/$export?_type=",
"requiresAccessToken": false,
"output" : [
  { "type" : "AllergyIntolerance", 
      "url": "https://s3.us-south.cloud-object-storage.appdomain.cloud/fhir-bulkimexport-connectathon/6SfXzbGvYl1nTjGbf5qeqJDFNjyljiGdKxXEJb4yJn8=/AllergyIntolerance_1.ndjson", 
    "count": 20},

>   { "type" : "AllergyIntolerance", 

Reviewer 2: maybe 1-2 output examples is OK?

    "count": 81},
  { "type" : "Group", 
      "url": "https://s3.us-south.cloud-object-storage.appdomain.cloud/fhir-bulkimexport-connectathon/6SfXzbGvYl1nTjGbf5qeqJDFNjyljiGdKxXEJb4yJn8=/Group_1.ndjson", 
    "count": 15},
  { "type" : "Condition", 
      "url": "https://s3.us-south.cloud-object-storage.appdomain.cloud/fhir-bulkimexport-connectathon/6SfXzbGvYl1nTjGbf5qeqJDFNjyljiGdKxXEJb4yJn8=/Condition_1.ndjson", 
    "count": 30},
  { "type" : "Condition", 
      "url": "https://s3.us-south.cloud-object-storage.appdomain.cloud/fhir-bulkimexport-connectathon/6SfXzbGvYl1nTjGbf5qeqJDFNjyljiGdKxXEJb4yJn8=/Condition_2.ndjson", 
    "count": 21},
  { "type" : "Composition", 
      "url": "https://s3.us-south.cloud-object-storage.appdomain.cloud/fhir-bulkimexport-connectathon/6SfXzbGvYl1nTjGbf5qeqJDFNjyljiGdKxXEJb4yJn8=/Composition_1.ndjson", 
    "count": 20},
  { "type" : "Composition", 
      "url": "https://s3.us-south.cloud-object-storage.appdomain.cloud/fhir-bulkimexport-connectathon/6SfXzbGvYl1nTjGbf5qeqJDFNjyljiGdKxXEJb4yJn8=/Composition_2.ndjson", 
    "count": 8}]
}

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```

> The exported ndjson file is configured with public access automatically and with 2 hours expiration time, the randomly generated secret in the path is used to protect the file. please notice that IBM COS doesn't support expiration time for each single COS object, so please configure retention policy (e.g, 1 day) for the bucket if IBM COS is used. And for both Amazon S3 and IBM COS, please remember that public access should never be configured to the bucket itself.  

Reviewer 2: I am not sure I follow this?  

If a file is written out to Object Storage, it's public by default? only protected by obfuscation? 

The above paragraph is a bit tricky to read

Reviewer 2: hum, this doesn't seem ideal.  Are there any alternatives?

Author: The other similar choice is the pre-signed urls which provide temp url for read and write, but the idea is the similar - a temp url with secret(signature) in path and can expire automatically.  https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/services/cloud-object-storage?topic=cloud-object-storage-presign-url.    and this approach is a little bit complicated than what I did in codes.   This is the url format of this approach:     
    var requestUrl = endpoint + '/' +
    bucket + '/' +
    objectKey + '?' +
    standardizedQuerystring +
    '&X-Amz-Signature=' +
    signature;

Reviewer 2: I'm curious what Lee thinks.  Otherwise looks good.

Reviewer: Albert and I came up with this approach together.  If there is enough "entropy" in the name, I think it would be acceptable for at least some use cases.  Similar to a box "share" link or a password reset link you get via email.  I do wish we could totally hide the internals though (i.e. not leak our bucket name).
We should be very clear that its publicly accessible though.

Reviewer 2: Yeah - I 100% agree.

Reviewer: One design goal for this was to keep us out of playing "middleman" for these downloads.  In most of our deployments we have a pretty short http timeout (60 seconds), so the download sort of needs to be a direct connection with COS.  
http://hl7.org/fhir/uv/bulkdata/STU1/authorization/index.html explains how to use SMART authentication, but I'm not sure how to do that.

Author: I thought about generate temp bear token for the download, but the problem is that the bear token could give the user full access to the bucket even COS service. maybe we could create a spec user/apikey without any access by default, and then give read access in the object ACL to this user, and generate the bear token for user to download the object, this will be much more complicated ...

  
JavaBatch feature must be enabled in server.xml as following for liberty server:

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
``` xml
```

    <!-- Enable features -->
    <featureManager>
        ...
        <feature>batchManagement-1.0</feature>
        ...
    </featureManager>
```

> And JavaBatch user used in bulkdata.json can be configured in server.xml as following: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The JavaBatch user used in bulkdata.json is configured in server.xml as following: 
```

```    
<authorization-roles id="com.ibm.ws.batch">
	<security-role name="batchAdmin">	
		<user name="fhiradmin"/>	
	</security-role>
	<security-role name="batchSubmitter">
		<user name="fhiruser"/>
	</security-role>
	<security-role name="batchMonitor">
		<user name="fhiradmin"/>
		<user name="fhiruser"/>
	</security-role>
</authorization-roles>
```

> Please notice that a user with at least batchSubmitter role should be used for batch-user of bulkdata.json.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note: The user referenced in the bulkdata.json must have a role of at least batchSubmitter.
```

> By default, in-memory derby database is used for persistence of the JavaBatch Jobs. Instruction is also provided in "Configuring a Liberty Datasource with API Key" section of the DB2OnCloudSetup guide to configure DB2 service in IBM Clouds as JavaBatch persistence store. Liberty JavaBath framework creates the Database, DB schema and tables automatically by default for both approaches.   

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, in-memory Derby database is used for persistence of the JavaBatch Jobs. Instruction is also provided in "Configuring a Liberty Datasource with API Key" section of the DB2OnCloudSetup guide to configure DB2 service in IBM Clouds as JavaBatch persistence store. Liberty JavaBatch framework creates the Database, DB schema and tables automatically by default for both approaches.   
```

It is also possible to configure the persistence properties for a specific tenant, for example to set an alternate
database hostname or database schema name.

> ## 4.10 BulkData

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 4.10 Bulk Data Operations
```

> ### 4.10.1 BulkData Export

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 4.10.1 Bulk data export
```

> BulkData Export is implemented according to [FHIR BulkDataAccess IG: STU1](http://hl7.org/fhir/uv/bulkdata/STU1/export/index.html).   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bulk data export is implemented according to the [HL7 FHIR BulkDataAccess IG: STU1](http://hl7.org/fhir/uv/bulkdata/STU1/export/index.html).
```

There are 2 modules involved inside the implementation:
- fhir-operation-bulkdata
- fhir-bulkimportexport-webapp   

> To integration test BulkData, there are tests in ExportOperationTest.java in fhir-server-test module with server integration test cases for system, patient and group export.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To integration test, there are tests in ExportOperationTest.java in fhir-server-test module with server integration test cases for system, patient and group export.  
```

> The *fhir-operation-bulkdata* project implements the REST APIs for Bulkdata export as FHIR operations.  There are three operations ExportOperation - system export, PatientExportOperation - Patient export and GroupExportOperation - group export.  Each operation calls the JavaBatch framework defined in the *fhir-bulkimportexport-webapp* project to execute the export unit-of-work.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *fhir-operation-bulkdata* project implements the REST APIs for bulk data export as FHIR operations.  There are three operations:
* ExportOperation - system export
* PatientExportOperation - Patient export
* GroupExportOperation - group export.
Each operation calls the JavaBatch framework defined in the *fhir-bulkimportexport-webapp* project to execute the export unit-of-work.   
```

There are 3 chunk style JavaBatch jobs defined as following in *fhir-bulkimportexport-webapp* project for the above 3 export operations:  

- FhirBulkExportChunkJob
- FhirBulkExportPatientChunkJob
- FhirBulkExportGroupChunkJob

> The *fhir-bulkimportexport-webapp* module is a wrapper for the whole BulkData web application, which is the build artifact - fhir-bulkimportexport.war.   This web archive is copied to the apps directory of the liberty fhir-server instance. Following is a sample liberty server configuration (server.xml) for fhir-bulkimportexport.war:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *fhir-bulkimportexport-webapp* module is a wrapper for the whole BulkData web application, which is the build artifact - fhir-bulkimportexport.war. This web archive is copied to the apps directory of the liberty fhir-server instance. Following is a sample liberty server configuration (server.xml) for fhir-bulkimportexport.war:
```

  "batch-truststore" : "resources/security/fhirTruststore.jks",
  "batch-truststore-password" : "xxxxxxxxxxxx",
  "serverHostname" : "localhost:9443",
  "contextRoot" : "/fhir-server/api/v4"
}
```
|Parameter Name   | Description|
|--------------| ------------|
|`applicationName`| fixed value |
|`moduleName`| fixed value |
|`jobParameters.cos.bucket.name`| object store bucket name |
|`jobParameters.cos.location`| object store location |
|`jobParameters.cos.endpointurl`| object store end point url |
|`jobParameters.credential.ibm`| if use IBM credential |
|`jobParameters.cos.api.key`| api key for accessing IBM COS |
|`jobParameters.cos.srvinst.id`| service instance Id for accessing IBM COS |
|`implementation_type`| fixed value |
|`batch-uri`| fixed value |
|`batch-user`| user for submitting JavaBatch job |
|`batch-user-password`| password for above batch user |
|`batch-truststore`| trust store for JavaBatch job submission |
|`batch-truststore-password`| password for above trust store |
|`serverHostname`| host name part of the server generated polling location url |
|`contextRoot`| context root part of the server generated polling location url |

> To use Amazon S3 bucket for exporting, please set cos.credential.ibm to "N", set cos.api.key to S3 access key, and set cos.srvinst.id to S3 secret key. This following is a sample path to the exported ndjson file, the full path can be gotten from the response to the polling location request after the export request (please refer to Fhir BulkDate spec for details).  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use Amazon S3 bucket for exporting, please set cos.credential.ibm to "N", set cos.api.key to S3 access key, and set cos.srvinst.id to S3 secret key. The following is a sample path to the exported ndjson file, the full path can be found in the response to the polling location request after the export request (please refer to the FHIR BulkDataAccess spec for details).  
```

* GroupExportOperation - group export.
Each operation calls the JavaBatch framework defined in the *fhir-bulkimportexport-webapp* module to execute the export unit-of-work.   
There are 3 chunk style JavaBatch jobs defined as following in *fhir-bulkimportexport-webapp* module for the above 3 export operations:  

- FhirBulkExportChunkJob
- FhirBulkExportPatientChunkJob
- FhirBulkExportGroupChunkJob

The *fhir-bulkimportexport-webapp* module is a wrapper for the whole BulkData web application, which is the build artifact - fhir-bulkimportexport.war. This web archive is copied to the apps directory of the liberty fhir-server instance. Following is a sample liberty server configuration (server.xml) for fhir-bulkimportexport.war:

```xml
    <webApplication id="fhir-bulkimportexport-webapp" location="fhir-bulkimportexport.war" name="fhir-bulkimportexport-webapp">
        <classloader commonLibraryRef="fhirSharedLib" privateLibraryRef="configResources,fhirUserLib"/>
        <application-bnd>
            <security-role id="users" name="FHIRUsers">
                <group name="FHIRUsers"/>
            </security-role>
        </application-bnd>
    </webApplication>
```

> BulkData web application writes the exported FHIR resources to IBM COS or Amazon S3 bucket, as configured in the per-tenant bulkdata.json configuration file.  The bulkdata.json file is stored in the tenant configuration directory of each fhir-server instance. The following is a bulkdata.json which is configured to export the FHIR resources into fhir-bulkdata-sample bucket of IBM COS: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
BulkData web application writes the exported FHIR resources to an IBM Cloud Object Storage (COS) or Amazon S3 bucket, as configured in the per-tenant bulkdata.json configuration file. The bulkdata.json file is stored in the tenant configuration directory of each fhir-server instance. The following is a bulkdata.json which is configured to export the FHIR resources into fhir-bulkdata-sample bucket of IBM COS: 
```

It is also possible to configure the persistence properties for a specific tenant, for example to set an alternate
database hostname or database schema name.

## 4.10 Bulk data operations
### 4.10.1 Bulk data export
Bulk data export is implemented according to the [HL7 FHIR BulkDataAccess IG: STU1](http://hl7.org/fhir/uv/bulkdata/STU1/export/index.html).
There are 2 modules involved inside the implementation:
- fhir-operation-bulkdata
- fhir-bulkimportexport-webapp   

> To integration test, there are tests in ExportOperationTest.java in fhir-server-test module with server integration test cases for system, patient and group export.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
I think this should be removed.  I don't think it's necessary, maybe include as a readme in the bulkdata operation module.

> The *fhir-operation-bulkdata* project implements the REST APIs for bulk data export as FHIR operations.  There are three operations:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The *fhir-operation-bulkdata* module implements the REST APIs for bulk data export as FHIR operations.  There are three operations:
```

* ExportOperation - system export
* PatientExportOperation - Patient export
* GroupExportOperation - group export.

> Each operation calls the JavaBatch framework defined in the *fhir-bulkimportexport-webapp* project to execute the export unit-of-work.   

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each operation calls the JavaBatch framework defined in the *fhir-bulkimportexport-webapp* module to execute the export unit-of-work.   
```

> There are 3 chunk style JavaBatch jobs defined as following in *fhir-bulkimportexport-webapp* project for the above 3 export operations:  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are 3 chunk style JavaBatch jobs defined as following in *fhir-bulkimportexport-webapp* module for the above 3 export operations:  
```

Author: just noticed that it's changed to project by Lee.

```

BulkData web application writes the exported FHIR resources to IBM COS or Amazon S3 bucket, as configured in the per-tenant bulkdata.json configuration file.  The bulkdata.json file is stored in the tenant configuration directory of each fhir-server instance. The following is a bulkdata.json which is configured to export the FHIR resources into fhir-bulkdata-sample bucket of IBM COS: 

```json
{
  "applicationName": "fhir-bulkimportexport-webapp",
  "moduleName": "fhir-bulkimportexport.war",
  "jobParameters": {
    "cos.bucket.name": "fhir-bulkdata-sample",
    "cos.location": "us",
    "cos.endpointurl": "https://s3.us-south.cloud-object-storage.appdomain.cloud",
    "cos.credential.ibm": "Y",
    "cos.api.key": "xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx",
    "cos.srvinst.id": "xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx",
  },
  "implementation_type": "cos",
  "batch-uri": "https://localhost:9443/ibm/api/batch/jobinstances",
  "batch-user": "fhiradmin",
  "batch-user-password": "xxxxxxxxxxxx",
  "batch-truststore" : "resources/security/fhirTruststore.jks",
  "batch-truststore-password" : "xxxxxxxxxxxx",
  "serverHostname" : "localhost:9443",
  "contextRoot" : "/fhir-server/api/v4"
}

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following configured parameters are: 
```
```

|Parameter Name   | Description|
|--------------| ------------|

> |`applicationName`| fixed value |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`applicationName`| fixed value, always set to fhir-bulkimportexport.war |
```

> |`moduleName`| fixed value |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`moduleName`| fixed value, always set to fhir-bulkimportexport.war |
```

|`jobParameters.cos.bucket.name`| object store bucket name |
|`jobParameters.cos.location`| object store location |
|`jobParameters.cos.endpointurl`| object store end point url |
|`jobParameters.credential.ibm`| if use IBM credential |
|`jobParameters.cos.api.key`| api key for accessing IBM COS |
|`jobParameters.cos.srvinst.id`| service instance Id for accessing IBM COS |

> |`implementation_type`| fixed value |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`implementation_type`| cos or dummy which matches the desired bulk operation implementation type |
```

> |`batch-uri`| fixed value |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`batch-uri`| the URL to access the FHIR server hosting the batch web application |
```

|`batch-user`| user for submitting JavaBatch job |
|`batch-user-password`| password for above batch user |
|`batch-truststore`| trust store for JavaBatch job submission |
|`batch-truststore-password`| password for above trust store |
|`serverHostname`| host name part of the server generated polling location url |
|`contextRoot`| context root part of the server generated polling location url |

To use Amazon S3 bucket for exporting, please set cos.credential.ibm to "N", set cos.api.key to S3 access key, and set cos.srvinst.id to S3 secret key. The following is a sample path to the exported ndjson file, the full path can be found in the response to the polling location request after the export request (please refer to the FHIR BulkDataAccess spec for details).  

```

> 	.../fhir-bulkimexport-connectathon/6xjd4M8afi6Xo95eYv7zPxBqSCoOEFywZLoqH1QBtbw=/Patient_1.ndjson

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.../fhir-bulkimexport-connectathon/6xjd4M8afi6Xo95eYv7zPxBqSCoOEFywZLoqH1QBtbw=/Patient_1.ndjson
```

```
Following is the beautified response of sample polling location request after the export is finished:

```json
{
"transactionTime": "2020/01/20 16:53:41.160 -0500",
"request": "/$export?_type=",
"requiresAccessToken": false,
"output" : [
  { "type" : "AllergyIntolerance", 
      "url": "https://s3.us-south.cloud-object-storage.appdomain.cloud/fhir-bulkimexport-connectathon/6SfXzbGvYl1nTjGbf5qeqJDFNjyljiGdKxXEJb4yJn8=/AllergyIntolerance_1.ndjson", 
    "count": 20},
  { "type" : "AllergyIntolerance", 
      "url": "https://s3.us-south.cloud-object-storage.appdomain.cloud/fhir-bulkimexport-connectathon/6SfXzbGvYl1nTjGbf5qeqJDFNjyljiGdKxXEJb4yJn8=/AllergyIntolerance_2.ndjson", 
    "count": 8},
  { "type" : "Observation", 
      "url": "https://s3.us-south.cloud-object-storage.appdomain.cloud/fhir-bulkimexport-connectathon/6SfXzbGvYl1nTjGbf5qeqJDFNjyljiGdKxXEJb4yJn8=/Observation_1.ndjson", 
    "count": 234},
  { "type" : "Observation", 
      "url": "https://s3.us-south.cloud-object-storage.appdomain.cloud/fhir-bulkimexport-connectathon/6SfXzbGvYl1nTjGbf5qeqJDFNjyljiGdKxXEJb4yJn8=/Observation_2.ndjson", 

>     "count": 81},

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    "count": 81}
```

> 	...

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

}
```

> The exported ndjson file is configured with public access automatically and with 2 hours expiration time, the randomly generated secret in the path is used to protect the file. please notice that IBM COS doesn't support expiration time for each single COS object, so please configure retention policy (e.g, 1 day) for the bucket if IBM COS is used. And for both Amazon S3 and IBM COS, please remember that public access should never be configured to the bucket itself.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The exported ndjson file is configured with public access automatically and with 2 hours expiration time, the randomly generated secret in the path is used to protect the file. please note that IBM COS does not support expiration time for each single COS object, so please configure retention policy (e.g, 1 day) for the bucket if IBM COS is used. For both Amazon S3 and IBM COS, please remember that public access should never be configured to the bucket itself.  
```
